.TH slpkg 1 "Orestiada, Hellas" "slpkg 4.8.5" dslackw
.SH NAME
.P
slpkg \- Package manager utility for Slackware.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.P
slpkg \c
[\fICOMMAND\fR] [\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fIFILELIST|PACKAGES...\fR]
.P
slpkg [-h|-v] [-u, update] [-U, upgrade] [-c, check-updates] [-I, repo-info] [-g, configs]
[-L, clean-logs] [-D, clean-tmp] [-T, clean-data] [-b, build] [-i, install] [-d, download]
[-R, remove] [-f, find] [-w, view] [-s, search] [-e, dependees] [-t, tracking] -y, --yes, -j, --jobs, -O, --resolve-off,
-r, --reinstall, -k, --skip-installed, -a, --install-data, -E, --full-reverse, -S, --search, -n, --no-silent, -p, --pkg-version,
-P, --parallel, -o, --repository=\fINAME\fR, -z, --directory=\fIPATH\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
Slpkg is a software package manager that installs, updates, and removes packages on Slackware based systems.
It automatically computes dependencies and figures out what things should occur to install packages.
Slpkg makes it easier to maintain groups of machines without having to manually update.
.P
Slpkg works in accordance with the standards of the organization SlackBuilds.org to build packages.
Also uses the Slackware Linux instructions for installation, upgrading or removing packages.
.SH COMMANDS
.P
.B -u, update
.RS
Updates the package list and the database.
.RE
.P
.B -U, upgrade
.RS
Upgrade all the installed packages if the newer version exists in the repository.
.RE
.P
.B -c, check-updates
.RS
Check if there is any news on the repositories ChangeLog.txt file.
.RE
.P
.B -I, repo-info
.RS
View information related to repositories, such as which repositories are active, when they were upgraded,
and how many packages they contain.
.RE
.P
.B -L, clean-logs
.RS
Cleans dependencies log tracking. After that procedure you should remove dependencies by hand.
.RE
.P
.B -T, clean-data
.RS
Sometimes is necessary to clean all the repositories data from the database.
Run this command to delete all the data and run '\fIslpkg update\fR' to recreate.
.RE
.P
.B -D, clean-tmp
.RS
Deletes all the downloaded SlackBuilds scripts and sources.
.RE
.P
.B -g, configs
.RS
Edit the configuration /etc/slpkg/slpkg.toml file.
.RE
.P
.B -b, build
.RS
Builds the Slackbuilds scripts and add the packages to the '/tmp' directory.
.RE
.P
.B -i, install
.RS
Builds and installs the packages in the correct order, and also logs the packages with the dependencies for removal.
.RE
.P
.B -d, download
.RS
Download the current SlackBuilds scripts and the sources without building or installing them.
.RE
.P
.B -R, remove
.RS
Removes packages with dependencies if the packages was installed with '\fIslpkg install\fR' method.
Slpkg looks at the 'REPO_TAG' configuration to find packages for removal by default, except if you are using \fB--file-pattern\fR option.
.RE
.P
.B -f, find
.RS
Find your installed packages on your system.
.RE
.P
.B -w, view
.RS
View information packages from the repository and get everything in your terminal.
.RE
.P
.B -s, search
.RS
Search and match packages from the repository.
.RE
.P
.B -e, dependees
.RS
Show which SlackBuilds depend on.
.RE
.P
.B -t, tracking
.RS
Tracking the packages dependencies.
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.P
.B -y, --yes
.RS
Answer Yes to all questions. (to be used with: -u, update, -U, upgrade, -b, build,
-i, install, -R, remove, -d, download,)
.RE
.P
.B -j, --jobs
.RS
Acceleration of SlackBuild scripts. When the \fB--jobs\fR flag is set, slpkg automatically detects the number
of processors and enters it into the MAKEFLAGS variable. Some SlackBuilds fail when MAKEFLAGS is declared or
the number of processors (-j) is greater than one. (to be used with: -U, upgrade, -b, build, -i, install)
.RE
.P
.B -O, --resolve-off
.RS
Turns off dependency resolving. (to be used with: -U, upgrade, -b, build, -i, install)
.RE
.P
.B -r, --reinstall
.RS
Use this option if you want to upgrade all packages even if the same version is already installed.
Do not skip installed packages. (to be used with: -U, upgrade, -i, install)
.RE
.P
.B -k, --skip-installed
.RS
This a helpful option if you want to avoid building and reinstalling packages.
Note: This option affects only the dependencies. (to be used with: -i, install)
.RE
.P
.B -a, --install-data
.RS
Install the data into the database only, if when you don't want to re-download or re-synchronize the package lists,
and you have already downloaded the repository, you can apply this options to install the data into the database.
This is a helpful especially for locals repositories and for those who download the repositories manually.
(to be used with: -u, update)
.RE
.P
.B -E, --full-reverse
.RS
Full reverse dependency. Works only with -e, dependees command and show the requires too.
(to be used with: -e, dependees)
.RE
.P
.B -S, --search
.RS
Enable the dialog utility to search packages from the repository.
Example try: '\fIslpkg install python3 --search\fR' or '\fIslpkg download python3 --search\fR' and etc.
(to be used with: -b, build, -i, install, -d, download, -R, remove, -f, find, -w, view,
-s, search, -e, dependees, -t, tracking)
.RE
.P
.B -n, --no-silent
.RS
Disable silent mode, if it is enabled in the configuration file. (to be used with: -u, update, -U, upgrade, -b, build,
-i, install, -R, remove)
.RE
.P
.B -p, --pkg-version
.RS
Print the repository package version. (to be used with: -e, dependees, -t, tracking, -w, view)
.RE
.P
.B -P, --parallel
.RS
Download files in parallel to speed up the process.
(to be used with: -u, update, -U, upgrade, -b, build, -i, install, -d, download)
.RE
.P
.B -m, --no-case
.RS
Case-sensitive pattern matching packages.
(to be used with: -b, build, -i, install, -d, download, -s, search, -f, find, -w, view, -t, tracking, -e, dependees)
.RE
.P
.BI "-o," "" " \-\--repository=" NAME "
.RS
Switches the default repository and set the repository you want to work with.
Make sure that you have been enabling the repository in the file '/etc/slpkg/repositories.toml'.
Repo pattern '*' supported only with: '-s, search' option.
(to be used with: -u, update, -U, upgrade, -c, check-updates, -I, repo-info, -b, build, -i, install, -d, download, -s, search,
-t, tracking, -e, dependees, -w, view)
.RE
.P
.BI "-z," "" " \-\-directory=" PATH "
.RS
The directory is the path where the files will be saved. (to be used with: -d, download)
.RE
.P
.B -h | --help
.RS
Show help information and exit.
.RE
.P
.B -v | --version
.RS
Print version and exit.
.RE
.SH OPTION SYNTAX
.P
Away from the classical way, you may put several options that do not require arguments together, like:
.PP
.Vb 1.
\&       slpkg -iPny [\fIPACKAGES...\fR]
.Ve
.RE
.SH FILELIST|PACKAGES
.P
Instead of packages, you can pass a text file with suffix '.pkgs' and with the names of the packages. Example: '\fIslpkg install list.pkgs\fR'.
Edit the config '/etc/slpkg/slpkg.toml' file to change the suffix if you want. You can use lists from others, like '.sqf' files.
.RE
.SH MUST YOU KNOW
.P
There are five indicators when some commands are used, for example:

Cyan: To install, Yellow: To build, Grey: It's installed, Violet: For the upgrade, Red: To remove.

When you use the install, build, upgrade or remove commands you should know that, if the package is installed then its
color will change to gray, if the package is upgradeable then it will change to violet, and if it is not installed then
its color will be cyan. Also, if you try to remove a package you will see the package color turns red.

Example: If the package is already installed and the indicator color is grey and the option '\fB-r, --reinstall\fR' is not applied,
the package will skip from the installation and you will see a message '(already installed)'.
If the package is upgradeable, the installation will continue and the package will go to upgrade.

For the upgrade command, you should know, that you can upgrade packages from different repositories, if you edit
the '\fI/etc/slpkg/repositories.toml\fR' file and remove the repository tag. Then the slpkg can't recognize the repository of the packages.

With the remove command, it's going to remove the dependencies if the package had installed with the '\fIslpkg install\fR' command,
otherwise, the slpkg does not know the dependencies that are installed with the packages that going to remove.

You can apply the asterisk '*' instead of a package, to matching all the packages from a repository. You can't apply
an asterisk to the '\fB-o, --repository=\fR' option, except for the '\fB-s, search\fR', command.

Note: There is currently no function to indicate the packages if the colors are disabled.
.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.P
0 Successful slpkg execution.
.P
1 Something wrong happened.
.P
20 No package found to be  downloaded,  installed,  reinstalled,  upgraded, or removed.
.RE
.SH EXPLANATION CHARACTERS
.P
[•] Processing status: Red is still processing, Green is done.
.P
[✔️] Done character: Appear when the processing is done.
.P
[X] Failed character: Appear when the processing is failed.
.P
[↪] Skipped character: Appear when the processing skipped.
.P
.RE
.SH CONFIGURATION FILES
.P
Configuration file in the /etc/slpkg/slpkg.toml file.
.P
Repositories file in the /etc/slpkg/repositories.toml file.
.P
Blacklist file in the /etc/slpkg/blacklist.toml file.
.P
Rules file in the /etc/slpkg/rules.toml file.
.P
\fIslpkg_new-configs\fR command it's managing the .new configuration files easily and fast. Move, copy or remove them.
.RE
.SH REPORT BUGS
.P
Please report any found to: https://gitlab.com/dslackw/slpkg/-/issues.
.P
Note: With the issue, please reference the log file you will find in the /tmp/slpkg/logs/slpkg.log path and paste it too.
.SH AUTHOR
.P
Dimitris Zlatanidis <dslackw@gmail.com>
