[console_scripts]
aij = webcam:main
aij-animation = animation:main
aij-chat = chat:main
aij-download = download:main
aij-emotion = emotion:main
aij-entity = entity:main
aij-face = face:main
aij-fake = fake:main
aij-intro = intro:main
aij-keyboard = keyboard:main
aij-knowledge = knowledge:main
aij-language = language:main
aij-messaging = messaging:main
aij-news = news:main
aij-objectron = objectron:main
aij-scrape = scrape:main
aij-selfie = selfie:main
aij-sentiment = sentiment:main
aij-setup = setup:main
aij-stream = stream:main
aij-transcibe = transcribe:main
aij-translate = translate:main
aij-voice = voice:main
aij-volume = volume:main
aij-webcam = webcam:main
aij-webcam2 = webcam2:main
aij-webcam3 = webcam3:main
